Mobile deployment docs overhaul (#4606)
mattermost/docs: source/mobile/mobile-overview.rst

Deploy Mattermost Mobile Apps
=============================

This documentation provides foundational information you need when developing a plan for an enterprise mobile application deployment. It’s intended for business leaders, system administrators, and mobile app developers responsible for deploying Mattermost in their organization.

This documentation provides information to help you: 

- Determine the ideal mobile deployment model for your organization.
- Understand what’s required to build your own Mattermost Mobile Apps.
- Deploy Mattermost Mobile Apps.

.. note::

>   - Mattermost Cloud customers must use Mattermost pre-built public apps for mobile deployment. 

Author: @esethna @enahum - I don't have a firm rationale for this limitation. 

Cloud System Admins don't have access to the Environment section of the System Console (to configure TPNS, HPNS, or a manual push notification service). However, after a quick chat with @marianunez, there doesn't appear to be any reasons why Cloud customers can't build their own mobile apps. 

@enahum - If you agree, I can remove this line from the docs altogether.

Reviewer: Not having access to that configuration section probably is a limitation though. Cloud admins are restricted admins and do not have the same level of access as self-managed admins.

Author: @marianunez makes an excellent point -- if a Cloud customer wanted to build their own apps, they'd need to host their own push notification service, and specify the server URL in an area of the System Console that Cloud System Admins don't have access to.

Author: Discussed via DM. From @enahum: "Technically they can, but apparently cause of the lack of functionality on the system message in cloud they won’t be able to setup the correct push proxy, so short answer seems to be: Cloud = pre-built only".

Reviewer 2: Lol @cwarnermm I did edit my post "System message" -> "system console"

  - Some features described in this guide are available only in Mattermost Enterprise Edition.

Decision Summary
----------------

When planning for a Mobile app deployment, you have two important decisions to make: 

> - What app will you deploy?

Reviewer 2: perhaps clarify, pre-built or custom build

Author: Great suggestion!

- How will you deploy it?

Mattermost provides official mobile Apps through public app stores including the `Apple App Store <https://www.apple.com/ca/app-store>`__ and the `Google Play Store <https://play.google.com/store>`__. These apps are referred to throughout this documentation as Mattermost's pre-built mobile apps. Using these pre-built apps is the easiest and fastest approach since your users can download the apps from public app stores, or you can use an EMM provider to enforce or restrict specific security policies. See `Using Mattermost’s Pre-Built Apps <https://docs.mattermost.com/mobile/use-prebuilt-mobile-apps.html>`__ to learn more about using Mattermost pre-built apps.

> If you want to control the look, feel, or capabilities of the Mobile apps, host your own push proxy server, or to maintain full control over app distribution, you can build your own mobile apps and manage your own app distribution. See `Building and Distributing Your Own Custom Mattermost Mobile Apps <https://docs.mattermost.com/mobile/build-custom-mobile-apps.html>`__ to learn more about working with custom apps.

Reviewer 2: > If you want to control the look, feel, or capabilities of the Mobile apps

capabilities in what way? are we referring to add custom functionality or remove functionality that already exists?

Reviewer 2: > or to maintain full control over app distribution

☝️ this does not require to have an own build of the apps.

Author: Great points! Thanks!

The following table summarizes the key differences between these two approaches:

+----------------------------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+
| **Use Pre-Built Apps (Highly Recommended)**                    | **Build Custom Apps (Not Easy)**                                    |
+================================================================+=====================================================================+
| **Recommended for:**                                           | **Recommended for:**                                                |
|                                                                |                                                                     |

> | Self-supporting teams who need standard features.              | Teams that need to customize the app, need to adhere to corporate   |

Reviewer 2: > need to adhere to corporate compliance rules?

How so? In my mind this only applies if you want to "wrap" the app and that is not really supported by us, so wondering if this should be either removed or explain a bit better

Author: I've removed this from the line altogether.

|                                                                | compliance rules, or prefer to host their own push proxy server.    |
+----------------------------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+
| **Benefits:**                                                  | **Benefits:**                                                       |
|                                                                |                                                                     |  
| - Easiest way to deploy Mattermost Apps.                       | You maintain full control over the distribution of applications,    |

> | - Test push notifications using the Test Push                  | including the look, feel, and capabilities of your mobile app.      |

Reviewer 2: > Test push notifications using the Test Push | including the look, feel, and capabilities of your mobile app.
not really,.. I can test with HPNS if I wanted to

> | - Test push notifications using the Test Push                  | including the look, feel, and capabilities of your mobile app.      |

Reviewer 2: > capabilities of your mobile app.

same comment as before

> |   Notification Service (TPNS).                                 |                                                                     |

Reviewer 2: can be used with HPNS and TPNS

| **Limitations:**                                               |                                                                     |
|                                                                |                                                                     |  
| - Can’t white-label Mattermost Mobile Apps.                    |                                                                     |
| - Can’t deploy your own push proxy server.                     |                                                                     |  
+----------------------------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+

Technical and Security Requirements
-----------------------------------

See our `Supported Devices/Mobile Device Requirements <https://docs.mattermost.com/install/requirements.html#mobile-apps>`__ documentation for basic mobile device requirements, and our `Supported Mattermost Server Versions <https://docs.mattermost.com/administration/mobile-changelog.html>`__ documentation for details on Mattermost Server minimum requirements. 

> We recommend running the latest version of the Mattermost Server as it contains the most recent features and applicable security updates. If this isn't possible, we encourage you to be on the most recent Extended Support Release version of Mattermost. This release has critical feature updates that will ensure compatibility in a number of areas, including the Mattermost Push Notification Service (MPNS).

Reviewer 2: I would add to keep the MPNS also updated to the latest version if they are hosting their own

Deploy Mattermost Mobile Apps
=============================

This documentation provides foundational information you need when developing a plan for an enterprise mobile application deployment. It’s intended for business leaders, system administrators, and mobile app champions responsible for deploying Mattermost in their organization.

This documentation provides information to help you: 

- Determine the ideal mobile deployment model for your organization.
- Understand what’s required to build your own Mattermost Mobile Apps.
- Deploy Mattermost Mobile Apps.

.. note::

    - Mattermost Cloud customers must use Mattermost pre-built public apps for mobile deployment. 

>     - Some features described in this guide are available only in Mattermost Enterprise.

Author: In this case, it's Mattermost Enterprise (what used to be known as E20).

>     - Some features described in this guide are available only in Mattermost Enterprise.

Author: ```suggestion
    - Some features described in this guide are available only in Mattermost Professional or Mattermost Enterprise.
```

>     - Some features described in this guide are available only in Mattermost Professional or Mattermost Enterprise.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - Some features described in this guide are available only in Mattermost Enterprise Edition.
```

Decision Summary
----------------

When planning for a Mobile app deployment, you have two important decisions to make: 

- What app will you deploy?
- How will you deploy it?

> Using Mattermost’s pre-built apps is the easiest and fastest approach since your users can download the apps from public app stores, including the `Apple App Store <https://www.apple.com/ca/app-store>`__ and the `Google Play Store <https://play.google.com/store>`__. Alternatively, you can use an EMM provider to enforce or restrict specific security policies. See `Using Mattermost’s Pre-Built Apps <https://docs.mattermost.com/mobile/use-prebuilt-mobile-apps.html>`__ to learn more about using Mattermost pre-built apps.

Author: I'll defer this one to @esethna -- Do we want to refer to the mobile apps that Mattermost provides as "pre-built" apps or "official apps distributed by Mattermost"?

> Using Mattermost’s pre-built apps is the easiest and fastest approach since your users can download the apps from public app stores, including the `Apple App Store <https://www.apple.com/ca/app-store>`__ and the `Google Play Store <https://play.google.com/store>`__. Alternatively, you can use an EMM provider to enforce or restrict specific security policies. See `Using Mattermost’s Pre-Built Apps <https://docs.mattermost.com/mobile/use-prebuilt-mobile-apps.html>`__ to learn more about using Mattermost pre-built apps.

Reviewer 4: I'm 0/5, your call Carrie, as long as we define it in the doc

> Using Mattermost’s pre-built apps is the easiest and fastest approach since your users can download the apps from public app stores, including the `Apple App Store <https://www.apple.com/ca/app-store>`__ and the `Google Play Store <https://play.google.com/store>`__. Alternatively, you can use an EMM provider to enforce or restrict specific security policies. See `Using Mattermost’s Pre-Built Apps <https://docs.mattermost.com/mobile/use-prebuilt-mobile-apps.html>`__ to learn more about using Mattermost pre-built apps.

Author: We're going to stick with pre-built apps, but I've added context about what this term means for clarity.

> If you want to control the look, feel, or capabilities of the mobile apps, host your own push proxy server, or to maintain full control over app distribution, you can build your own mobile apps and manage your own app distribution. See `Building and Distributing Your Own Custom Mattermost Mobile Apps <https://docs.mattermost.com/mobile/build-custom-mobile-apps.html>`__ to learn more about working with custom apps.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If you want to control the look, feel, or capabilities of the Mobile apps, host your own push proxy server, or to maintain full control over app distribution, you can build your own mobile apps and manage your own app distribution. See `Building and Distributing Your Own Custom Mattermost Mobile Apps <https://docs.mattermost.com/mobile/build-custom-mobile-apps.html>`__ to learn more about working with custom apps.
```

> The following table summarizes the key differences between these two approaches:

Reviewer 3: I can't see the table in the preview mode in GitHub. Is it displaying for you locally?

Author: Thanks all! Table should now be visible.

+----------------------------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+
| **Use Pre-Built Apps (Highly Recommended)**                    | **Build Custom Apps (Not Easy)**                                    |
+================================================================+=====================================================================+
| **Recommended for:**                                           | **Recommended for:**                                                |
|                                                                |                                                                     |
| Self-supporting teams who need standard features               | Teams that need to customize the app, adhere to corporate           |

> | and have minimal corporate compliance rules.                   | compliance rules, or prefer to host their own push proxy server.    |

Author: Great question! @esethna - are there examples of corporate compliance rules available for cases where building a custom app is the better approach (that can't be achieved otherwise?)

> | and have minimal corporate compliance rules.                   | compliance rules, or prefer to host their own push proxy server.    |

Reviewer 4: We can remove it. It's true that "compliance rules" are likely solved by appconfig variables which apply to both custom and pre-built apps

+----------------------------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+
| **Benefits:**                                                  | **Benefits:**                                                       |
|                                                                |                                                                     |  
| - Easiest way to deploy Mattermost Apps.                       | You maintain full control over the distribution of applications,    |
| - Test push notifications using the Test Push                  | including the look, feel, and capabilities of your mobile app.      |

> |   Notification Service (TPNS)                                  |                                                                     |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
|   Notification Service (TPNS).                                  |                                                                     |
```

|                                                                |                                                                     |  
| - Can’t control the look, feel, and capabilities               |                                                                     |  
|   of Mattermost Mobile Apps.                                   |                                                                     |
| - Can’t deploy your own push proxy server.                     |                                                                     |  
+----------------------------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+

Technical and Security Requirements
-----------------------------------

See our `Supported Devices/Mobile Device Requirements <https://docs.mattermost.com/install/requirements.html#mobile-apps>`__ documentation for basic mobile device requirements, and our `Supported Mattermost Server Versions <https://docs.mattermost.com/administration/mobile-changelog.html>`__ documentation for details on Mattermost Server minimum requirements. 

> We recommend running the latest version of the Mattermost Server as it contains the most recent features and applicable security updates. If this is not possible, we encourage you to be on the most recent Extended Support Release version of Mattermost. This release has critical feature updates that will ensure compatibility in a number of areas, including the Mattermost Push Notification Service (MPNS).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
We recommend running the latest version of the Mattermost Server as it contains the most recent features and applicable security updates. If this isn't possible, we encourage you to be on the most recent Extended Support Release version of Mattermost. This release has critical feature updates that will ensure compatibility in a number of areas, including the Mattermost Push Notification Service (MPNS).
```

> Important

Reviewer 3: I think this is missing formatting (I don't know how to fix it correctly as a comment).

Author: Thanks! Great catch!

> Not all provided updates are compatible with all previous versions of Mattermost. Updating only Mattermost Mobile apps or updating the mobile apps before updating Mattermost Server can result in incompatibility issues.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Not all provided updates are compatible with all previous versions of Mattermost. Updating only Mattermost Mobile Apps or updating the Mobile apps before updating Mattermost Server can result in compatibility issues.
```

You should also start thinking about technical and security requirements in parallel with an implementation plan. Feel free to use our `implementation plan template <https://docs.mattermost.com/getting-started/implementation_plan.html>`__ available in the Mattermost documentation. 

Also, start engaging your technical and security teams with the following questions:

- Are there any known security or access requirements?

> - Is an `Enterprise Mobile Management (EMM) Provider <https://docs.mattermost.com/mobile/deploy-mobile-apps-using-emm-provider.html>`__ needed?

Author: I suspect that this new page link isn't working in Preview because it's on a branch. I'll confirm all links post-merge.

- Is a `VPN connection required <https://docs.mattermost.com/mobile/deploy-mobile-apps-using-emm-provider.html#consider-mobile-vpn-options>`__?

Asking questions like these requires you to pause before jumping into your Mattermost mobile project. However, it will help ensure you see a return on your investment.

Getting Help
------------

If you need assistance, please reach out using one or more of the following methods.

> 

Reviewer 3: Suggestion - use colons for the list below (instead of hyphens), for consistency.

Author: Thanks! Great suggestion!

> - **Community**: Join our Mattermost community and post your specific questions in the `Developers: Mobile <https://community-daily.mattermost.com/core/channels/native-mobile-apps>`__ channel.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- **Community:** Join our Mattermost community and post your specific questions in the `Developers: Mobile <https://community-daily.mattermost.com/core/channels/native-mobile-apps>`__ channel.
```

> - **Community** - Join our Mattermost community and post your specific questions in the `Developers: Mobile <https://community-daily.mattermost.com/core/channels/native-mobile-apps>`__ channel to work with one of the best open source communities around. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- **Community** - Join our Mattermost community and post your specific questions in the `Developers: Mobile <https://community-daily.mattermost.com/core/channels/native-mobile-apps>`__ channel.
```

> - **Documentation**: We link to a lot of mobile-specific documentation within this guide, but we encourage you to visit all of our `product documentation <https://docs.mattermost.com/>`__.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- **Documentation:** We link to a lot of mobile-specific documentation within this guide, but we encourage you to visit all of our `product documentation <https://docs.mattermost.com/>`__.
```

> - **Forums**: For more troubleshooting help, `open a new topic in our forums <https://forum.mattermost.org/c/trouble-shoot>`__ with steps to reproduce your issue.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- **Forums:** For more troubleshooting help, `open a new topic in our forum <https://forum.mattermost.org/c/trouble-shoot>`__ and include the steps to reproduce your issue so we can test on our side.
```

> - **GitHub**: `Visit us on GitHub <https://github.com/mattermost/>`__ to create issues in any of our repositories.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- **GitHub:** `Visit us on GitHub <https://github.com/mattermost/>`__ to create issues in any of our repositories.
```

> - **Enterprise Support**: If you're a Mattermost Enterprise Edition subscriber, you may open a support ticket in the `Enterprise Edition Support portal <https://support.mattermost.com/>`__.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- **Enterprise Support:** If you're a Mattermost Enterprise Edition subscriber, open a support ticket in the `Enterprise Edition Support portal <https://support.mattermost.com/>`__.
```

> - **Enterprise Support** - If you are a Mattermost Enterprise Edition subscriber, you may open a support ticket in the `Enterprise Edition Support portal <https://support.mattermost.com/>`__.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- **Enterprise Support** - If you're a Mattermost Enterprise Edition subscriber, you may open a support ticket in the `Enterprise Edition Support portal <https://support.mattermost.com/>`__.
```
